HPC Episode (#18)
carpentries-incubator/targets-workshop: episodes/hpc.Rmd

}
```

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: questions 

- Why would we use HPC to run Targets workflows?
- How can we run Targets workflows on Slurm?

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: objectives

- Be able to generate a report using `targets`

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: instructor

Episode summary: Show how to write reports with Quarto

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

```{r}
#| label: setup
#| echo: FALSE
#| message: FALSE
#| warning: FALSE
library(targets)
library(tarchetypes)
library(quarto) # don't actually need to load, but put here so renv catches it
source("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/joelnitta/targets-workshop/main/episodes/files/functions.R?token=$(date%20+%s)") # nolint

# Increase width for printing tibbles
options(width = 140)
```

## Advantages of HPC

If your analysis involves computationally intensive or long-running tasks such as training machine learning models or processing very large amounts of data, it will quickly become infeasible to use a single machine to run this.

> If you are part of an organisation with access to a High Performance Computing (HPC) cluster, you can easily leverage the numerous machines with Targets to scale up your analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have access to a High Performance Computing (HPC) cluster, you can leverage the numerous machines with Targets to scale up your analysis.
```
I'm being pedantic here, but one does not have to be part of an organisation with an HPC facility to be able to use one.

Furthermore, try not to use terms like "easily", "only", "just" and similar words, as required by carpentry instructors + courses. These kind of words downplay the difficulty or complexity of a task, which can be discouraging or off-putting to learners who find the task challenging.

Author: Thanks, that's good advice.

> This differs from the exucution we have learned so far, which spawns extra R processes on the *same machine* to speed up execution.

Reviewer 2: 'exucution' should be 'execution'

## Configuring Targets for Slurm

> Fortunately, using HPC is as simple as changing the Targets `controller`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To adapt Targets to use the Slurm HPC scheduler, we change the `controller`.
```
See comment above about language that can understate effort.

> In this section we will assume that our HPC uses Slurm as its job scheduler, but you can easily use other schedulers such as PBS/TORQUE, Sun Grid Engine (SGE) or LSF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section we will assume that our HPC uses Slurm as its job scheduler, but you can use other schedulers such as PBS/TORQUE, Sun Grid Engine (SGE) or LSF.
```
Could you also elaborate on how this would be done?

In the Parallel Processing section, we used the following configuration:
```{R}
library(crew)
tar_option_set(
  controller = crew_controller_local(workers = 2)
)
```

> To configure this for Slurm, we just swap out the controller with a new one from the `crew.cluster` package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure this for Slurm, we swap out the controller with a new one from the `crew.cluster` package:
```

```{R}
library(crew.cluster)
tar_option_set(
  controller = crew_controller_slurm(
    workers = 3,
    script_lines = "module load R"
  )
)
```

> There are a number of options you can pass to `crew_controller_slurm()` to fine-tune the Slurm execution, [which you can find here](https://wlandau.github.io/crew.cluster/reference/crew_controller_slurm.html).

Reviewer: Could you elaborate on the type of options that are available? E.g., when might you have to use the "script_lines" vs the targets options to control Slurm execution config?
Are there equivalents for other schedulers?

Here we are only using two:

  * `workers` sets the number of jobs that are submitted to Slurm to process targets.

>   * `script_lines` adds some lines to the Slurm submit script used by Targets. This is useful for loading Environment Modules and adding `#SBATCH` options.

Reviewer: I would suggest first moving `This is useful for loading Environment Modules and adding `#SBATCH` options.` to somewhere after your first demonstration with the `module load R` command. Carpentries prefer that you teach one thing at a time. So, you first introduce the script_lines concept, and then connect it to the Slurm options afterwards.

Let's run the modified workflow:

```{R, eval=FALSE}
source("R/packages.R")
source("R/functions.R")

library(crew.cluster)
tar_option_set(
  controller = crew_controller_slurm(
    workers = 3,

>     script_lines = "module load R"

Reviewer 2: Add an example to show how to add SBATCH options too.

  )
)

tar_plan(
  # Load raw data
  tar_file_read(
    penguins_data_raw,
    path_to_file("penguins_raw.csv"),
    read_csv(!!.x, show_col_types = FALSE)
  ),
  # Clean data
  penguins_data = clean_penguin_data(penguins_data_raw),
  # Build models
  models = list(
    combined_model = lm(
      bill_depth_mm ~ bill_length_mm, data = penguins_data),
    species_model = lm(
      bill_depth_mm ~ bill_length_mm + species, data = penguins_data),
    interaction_model = lm(
      bill_depth_mm ~ bill_length_mm * species, data = penguins_data)
  ),
  # Get model summaries
  tar_target(
    model_summaries,
    glance_with_mod_name_slow(models),
    pattern = map(models)
  ),
  # Get model predictions
  tar_target(
    model_predictions,
    augment_with_mod_name_slow(models),
    pattern = map(models)
  )
)
```

::: challenge
## Increasing Resources

> Q: How would you modify your `_targets.R` if your targets needed 200GB of RAM?

Reviewer: Is there a reason why you chose 200GB? Smaller HPC facilities might not have nodes with this much RAM Choosing a smaller number would help make this more accessible.

Author: No particular reason, but this example isn't actually run so I don't think it matters?

Reviewer: I guess it isn't critical, since it's just a test of knowledge. But people may want to run it to confirm for themselves, so lowering the value would make it easier.

::: hint
Check the arguments for [`crew_controller_slurm`](https://wlandau.github.io/crew.cluster/reference/crew_controller_slurm.html#arguments-1).
:::
::: solution
```R
tar_option_set(
  controller = crew_controller_slurm(
    workers = 3,
    script_lines = "module load R",
    # Added this
    slurm_memory_gigabytes_per_cpu = 200,
    slurm_cpus_per_task = 1
  )
)
```
:::
:::

## HPC Workers

> Despite what you might expect, `crew` does not submit one Slurm job for each target. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`crew` uses a persistent worker strategy. This means that `crew` does not submit one Slurm job for each target. 
```
Better not to assume what expectations the learner will have.

Instead, it uses persistent workers, meaning that you define a pool of workers when configuring the workflow.
In our example above we used 3 workers.
For each worker, `crew` submits a single Slurm job, and these workers will process multiple targets over their lifetime.

> We can verify that this has happened using `sacct`:

Reviewer: To keep the material as agnostic to the scheduler as possible, I suggest removing this as learners not using Slurm would have no idea what `sacct` does and what the output means.

Author: The episode is already reasonably tied to Slurm by virtue of the controller class being Slurm-specific. Considering that, is there much benefit of removing this?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can verify that this has happened using `sacct`, which we can use to query information about our past jobs:
```

Yeah you're probably right that it is not that meaningful to remove it. But perhaps add a bit of an explainer to what the command is doing.

A semi-related question: Are there any monitoring tools available for the targets? I imagine that would also be useful for parallel execution.

Author: There are, but they're mostly covered already in the Lifecycle episode, or are extensions of the same functions: https://docs.ropensci.org/targets/reference/index.html#progress

```{bash}
sacct
```

> The upside of this approach is that we don't have to work out the minutae of how long each target takes to build, or what resources it needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The upside of this approach is that we don't have to know how long each target takes to build, or what resources it needs.
```

> It also means that we don't submit a lot of jobs, making our Slurm usage more efficient and easy to monitor.

Reviewer: Submitting lots of jobs is not really a problem for an HPC scheduler, but people generally care more about resource utilization. One could argue that the persistent worker strategy is potentially less efficient. I would suggest removing this line.

Author: Would it be reasonable to remove the point about efficiency but keep the rest?

> The downside of this mechanism is that **the resources of the worker have to be sufficient to build each of your targets**.

Reviewer: maybe you mean "the worker have to be sufficient to build all of your targets"? Maybe an example would be more helpful.

Author: I used to have an example here, but I converted the example into the following challenge block. Is this not a good approach?

Reviewer: I just didn't understand that sentence that well. The example in the challenge is clear, but if I were in the learner's shoes, I would probably be "guessing" the answer to the challenge with the explanation alone.

Reviewer: hence why changing "each target" to "all targets" might make more sense, as it expresses that all the targets need to be able to run within the crew's resources.

::: challenge
## Choosing a Worker

Q: Say we have two targets. One uses 100 GB of RAM and 1 CPU, and the other needs 10 GB of RAM and 8 CPUs to run a multi-threaded function. What worker configuration do we use?

::: solution
We need to choose the maximum of all resources if we have a single worker.
It will need 100 GB of RAM and 8 CPUs.
To do this we might use a controller a bit like this:
```{R, results="hide"}
crew_controller_slurm(
  name = "cpu_worker",
  workers = 3,
  script_lines = "
#SBATCH --cpus-per-task=8
module load R",
  slurm_memory_gigabytes_per_cpu = 100
)
```
:::
:::

## Heterogeneous Workers

> In some cases we may prefer heterogeneous workers, especially if some of our targets need a GPU and others need a CPU.

Reviewer: Can you clarify what "heterogeneous" means here?

if (!nzchar(Sys.which("sbatch"))){
  knitr::knit_exit("sbatch was not detected. Likely Slurm is not installed. Exiting.")
}
```

::: questions 

- Why would we use HPC to run Targets workflows?
- How can we run Targets workflows on Slurm?

:::

::: objectives

- Be able to run a Targets workflow on Slurm
- Understand how workers relate to targets 
- Know how to configure Slurm jobs within targets
- Be able to create a pipeline with heterogeneous workers

:::

```{r}
#| label: setup
#| echo: false
#| message: false
#| warning: false
library(targets)
library(tarchetypes)
library(quarto) # don't actually need to load, but put here so renv catches it
source("files/lesson_functions.R") # nolint

# Increase width for printing tibbles
options(width = 140)
```

## Advantages of HPC

If your analysis involves computationally intensive or long-running tasks such as training machine learning models or processing very large amounts of data, it will quickly become infeasible to use a single machine to run this.
If you have access to a High Performance Computing (HPC) cluster, you can leverage the numerous machines with Targets to scale up your analysis.

> This differs from the exucution we have learned so far, which spawns extra R processes on the *same machine* to speed up execution.

Reviewer 3: Typo: `exucution` -> `execution`

In some cases we may prefer to use more than one different Slurm job processing our targets, especially if some of our targets need different hardware from others, such as a GPU.
When we do this, we say we have "heterogeneous workers", meaning that not all worker jobs are the same as each other.
To do this, we firstly define each worker configuration by adding the `name` argument to `crew_controller_slurm`:

```{R}
#| results: hide
library(crew.cluster)
small_memory <- crew_controller_slurm(
  name = "small_memory",
  script_lines = "module load R",
  slurm_memory_gigabytes_per_cpu = 1
)
big_memory <- crew_controller_slurm(
  name = "big_memory",
  script_lines = "module load R",
  slurm_memory_gigabytes_per_cpu = 10
)
```

Next, we tell Targets about these controllers using `tar_option_set` as before, with one difference: we have to combine them in a controller group:

```{R}
#| results: hide
tar_option_set(
  controller = crew_controller_group(small_memory, big_memory)
)
```

Then we specify each controller by name in each target definition:

```{R}
#| results: hide
tar_plan(
  tar_target(
    name = big_memory_task,

>     command = Sys.getenv("SBATCH_MEM_PER_CPU"),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    command = Sys.getenv("SLURM_MEM_PER_CPU"),
```

    resources = tar_resources(
      crew = tar_resources_crew(controller = "big_memory")
    )
  ),
  tar_target(
    name = small_memory_task,

>     command = Sys.getenv("SBATCH_MEM_PER_CPU"),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    command = Sys.getenv("SLURM_MEM_PER_CPU"),
```
